Add 'git go-patch shell' subcommand (#499)
microsoft/go-infra: cmd/git-go-patch/README.md

Sometimes you have to fix a bug in a patch file, add a new patch file, etc., and `apply`, `rebase`, and `extract` can help.

### Streamlined workflow with `git go-patch shell`

`git go-patch shell` automates the most common parts of the editing workflow. It opens an interactive shell whose working directory is already set to the submodule (so there's no need to `cd`), and it automatically runs `git go-patch extract` when you exit the shell. The shell's prompt is prefixed with `(git-go-patch)` to indicate you're in this mode.

A typical session looks like this:

```
git go-patch shell -apply
# edit commits in the submodule, e.g. with `git rebase -i` or `git go-patch rebase`

> exit

Reviewer: I think that it's important to support `exit 1` to quit the shell without rewriting the patch files. (This being `exit 0` implicitly.) This gives an escape hatch when the dev knows they messed up history really bad, and would e.g. create thousands of patch files if they let the tool do its thing. (Or: if it would overwrite existing patch file changes that would be difficult to recover.)

Maybe this is already implemented (haven't read through), but either way, would need to be documented. The output when entering the shell should also mention it IMO.

Author: Makes sense. Point of clarification though -- since a shell exits with its last command's status  (a plain exit 1 can't be told apart from a last command that just happened to fail (failed grep, Ctrl-C, etc.)) so keying "discard" off non-zero would skip saving unexpectedly. Should we use a sentinel for "discard," or just prompt like "rewrite patch files?" after the shell closes?

Author: discussed offline -- will either exit 0 or 1 instead (updated README with details!)

Sometimes you have to fix a bug in a patch file, add a new patch file, etc., and `apply`, `rebase`, and `extract` can help.

### Streamlined workflow with `git go-patch shell`

> `git go-patch shell` automates the most common parts of the editing workflow. It opens an interactive shell whose working directory is already set to the submodule (so there's no need to `cd`), and when you exit the shell with a status of 0 it automatically runs `git go-patch extract`. The shell's prompt is prefixed with `(git-go-patch)` to indicate you're in this mode.

Reviewer: Throughout: break into lines to improve maintainability.

```suggestion
`git go-patch shell` automates the most common parts of the editing workflow.
It opens an interactive shell whose working directory is already set to the submodule (so there's no need to `cd`), and when you exit the shell with a status of 0 it automatically runs `git go-patch extract`.
The shell's prompt is prefixed with `(git-go-patch)` to indicate you're in this mode.
```

A typical session looks like this:

```
git go-patch shell -apply
# edit commits in the submodule, e.g. with `git rebase -i` or `git go-patch rebase`

> exit

Reviewer: Include 0 so it works everywhere:

```suggestion
exit 0
```

# `git go-patch extract` runs automatically and rewrites the patch files
```

#### Saving vs. discarding your changes on exit

When you leave the shell, `extract` runs only if the shell exits with status `0`. This gives you an escape hatch: if you've made a mess of the commit history and don't want the tool to rewrite (or overwrite) your patch files, exit with a non-zero status instead.

* **Save** &mdash; exit with status `0`: `exit 0` (or just `exit` in PowerShell, where a plain `exit` is always `0`). `git go-patch extract` runs and rewrites the patch files.

> * **Discard** &mdash; exit with a non-zero status: `exit 1`. `extract` is skipped and your patch files are left untouched. If you actually wanted to save, run `git go-patch extract` yourself afterward.

Reviewer: * I think I'd prefer typical separators rather than em dash, but either way I don't think html escape is necessary?
* I don't think this needs to mention PowerShell behavior, this can be left to the next paragraph.
* Streamline in general for quick reference.

```suggestion
* `exit 0` to **save all changes you made in the submodule to the patch files**.
* `exit 1` to **discard your changes**.
```

> Note the shell-specific behavior of a plain `exit`: in PowerShell it always reports status `0`, but in POSIX shells like bash and zsh it inherits the status of the last command you ran. So in bash/zsh, if your final command failed (for example a `grep` with no match), a plain `exit` can carry a non-zero status and skip `extract`. When in doubt, use `exit 0` explicitly to save.

Reviewer: More distinct formatting, streamline, and weave in the manual save note in a place that seems pretty reasonable to me:

```suggestion
> [!TIP]
> In PowerShell, a plain `exit` always reports status `0`, but in POSIX shells like bash and zsh `exit` inherits the status of the last command you ran.
> Due to this, we recommend always using `exit 0` so your result doesn't depend on the type of shell you are using at the time.
>
> If you use `exit` in a POSIX shell and accidentally discard your changes, you can run `git go-patch extract` to save the changes yourself.
```

> Useful flags:

Reviewer: I think they're all useful. 😄 What I think might be excluded here in the future are rarely used flags:

```suggestion
Commonly used flags:
```

* `-apply`: run `git go-patch apply` before opening the shell.

> * `-rebase`: run `git go-patch rebase` (an interactive rebase) before opening the shell. Combine with `-apply` to apply and then immediately start a rebase. The rebase runs to completion first; if it stops (for example on a conflict or an `edit`/`break` step) the shell still opens so you can resolve it and run `git rebase --continue`.

Reviewer: Organize for readability, point to help with `--continue`:

```suggestion
* `-rebase`: run `git go-patch rebase` (an interactive rebase) before opening the shell.
  * Combine with `-apply` to apply and then immediately start a rebase.
  * The rebase runs to completion first. If it stops (for example on a conflict or an `edit`/`break` step) the shell still opens so you can resolve it and run `git rebase --continue`. See [Fix up patch files after a submodule update](#fix-up-patch-files-after-a-submodule-update) for rebase conflict resolution techniques.
```

(Step 6 of that section could be updated to mention "or exit from your `git go-patch shell` session".)

Sometimes you have to fix a bug in a patch file, add a new patch file, etc., and `apply`, `rebase`, and `extract` can help.

### Streamlined workflow with `git go-patch shell`

`git go-patch shell` automates the most common parts of the editing workflow.
It opens an interactive shell whose working directory is already set to the submodule (so there's no need to `cd`), and when you exit the shell with a status of 0 it automatically runs `git go-patch extract`.

> The shell's prompt is prefixed with `(git-go-patch)` to indicate you're in this mode.

Reviewer: This should maybe not be mentioned (the user will see it, or they won't, and it isn't necessary to know about it to use the tool properly), or it should include the "best effort" note here instead of below.

Author: will delete

> Due to this, we recommend always using `exit 0` so your result doesn't depend on the type of shell you are using at the time.
>
> If you use `exit` in a POSIX shell and accidentally discard your changes, you can run `git go-patch extract` to save the changes yourself.

Commonly used flags:

* `-apply`: run `git go-patch apply` before opening the shell.
* `-rebase`: run `git go-patch rebase` (an interactive rebase) before opening the shell.
  * Combine with `-apply` to apply and then immediately start a rebase.
  * The rebase runs to completion first. If it stops (for example on a conflict or an `edit`/`break` step) the shell still opens so you can resolve it and run `git rebase --continue`. See [Fix up patch files after a submodule update](#fix-up-patch-files-after-a-submodule-update) for rebase conflict resolution techniques.
* `-no-extract`: don't run `git go-patch extract` automatically on exit (run it yourself when ready).

If a rebase, merge, cherry-pick, or revert is still in progress when you exit the shell, `extract` is skipped automatically so the patch files aren't rewritten from an incomplete state.

> `extract` is likewise skipped when the submodule has no commits on top of the recorded base — for example if you open a plain `git go-patch shell` (without `-apply`) on a submodule that has no patches applied — because extracting from an empty history would delete every patch file.

Reviewer: Maybe more scannable, and more concrete scenario:

```suggestion
There are some conditions where `extract` will be skipped regardless of exit code in order to fail safe.
This avoids writing patches from an incomplete state:

* A rebase, merge, cherry-pick, or revert is still in progress.
* The submodule has no commits on top of the recorded base.
  * For example, if you use `git submodule update` and then `git go-patch shell` (without `-apply`), extracting from the empty history would delete every patch file.
```

> Pass `-apply` (or run `git go-patch apply` first) when you intend to edit and re-extract patches.

Reviewer: I don't think it's necessary to point this out again, the context doesn't seem different?

(It's also overly rigid--my shell might die (e.g. because my wsl/ssh session died) and I would not pass `-apply` so I can resume my work.)

```suggestion
```

The shell sets `GIT_GO_PATCH_INTERACTIVE` in its environment (to the submodule's path) so scripts (and an accidental nested `git go-patch shell` for the same submodule) can reliably detect the mode.
The prompt is also prefixed on a best-effort basis, but prompt frameworks that re-render the prompt on every command (for example powerlevel10k or oh-my-posh transient prompts) may drop the `(git-go-patch)` prefix; the printed banner and the environment variable are the reliable indicators that you're in shell mode.

> On zsh, the shell launches with a temporary `ZDOTDIR` so it can load your config and then prepend the prompt prefix.

Reviewer: Organize for readability?

```suggestion
Some environment variables are set for the launched shell:

* `GIT_GO_PATCH_INTERACTIVE` is set to to the submodule's path.
  * Allows scripts to reliably detect the mode, and any accidental nested `git go-patch shell` for the same submodule to refuse to run.
* `PS1` is set to your existing `PS1` with the `(git-go-patch)` prefix inserted.

> [!NOTE]
> Prompt frameworks that re-render the prompt on every command (for example powerlevel10k or oh-my-posh transient prompts) may drop the prefix.
> The printed banner may be sufficient to recognize when you're in the shell.
> Or, consider integrating the `GIT_GO_PATCH_INTERACTIVE` environment variable into your custom dynamic prompt.

Additionally, if the active shell is zsh, the launched shell sets `ZDOTDIR` to a temporary directory that is set up to load your config and then prepend the prompt prefix.
```

> If your `.zshrc` sources split configuration relative to `$ZDOTDIR` (for example `source $ZDOTDIR/aliases.zsh`), those lookups resolve against the temporary directory and are silently skipped inside the git-go-patch shell.

Reviewer: Hmm, this is making demands on how you configure your shell? It doesn't seem worth it to me... especially vs. the risky consequence of your environment working in a new way vs. the way it should.

Is there e.g. an escape hatch to turn this feature off if it's blocking your workflow? Is it easy to recognize that this is what's going wrong?

Author: Fair — the zsh ZDOTDIR rewrite is a lot of fragility for a cosmetic prefix. I will drop the prompt-prefix for zsh (and probably bash) and rely on GIT_GO_PATCH_INTERACTIVE + the entry banner as the reliable mode indicators
